World Cup 2022: How football fever is gripping cricket-crazy India
Many fans in Kerala are traveling to Doha for the upcoming World Cup
This week, Hashir Ali and 11 of his friends will make a long trip - from Kozhikode city in the southern state of Kerala to Doha, the capital of Qatar.
Mr Ali, 55, a football-crazy civil engineer, and his friends are travelling to Doha for the World Cup, where they will stay for 10 days to watch the matches live.
Mr Ali bought tickets for the matches six months ago through a friend in Doha and has been waiting for the "big moment" ever since.
He is among several fans in India, who are gung-ho about football. Along with Kerala, Kolkata city in the eastern state of West Bengal and Kolhapur district in the western state of Maharashtra also have a large number of football fans.
With the world's second largest population, many feel India is under-represented in the world's most popular sport - the national team languishes in 106th spot in Fifa's rankings.
Though India qualified in 1950, they have never actually made it to the World Cup. They refused to participate, partly because it would have meant their normally barefoot team having to wear football boots.
But every time the World Cup is held, India's football fans do crazy things to express their love for the sport, and their favourite international team.
They save up for months to travel to watch the games; hold mock-matches sporting their favourite team's jerseys; predict who will win the championship and take out colourful processions to celebrate their team's victories.
Fans wave flags next to the giant cutouts of players from Brazil's Neymar (L), Portuguese Cristiano Ronaldo (C) and Argentine Lionel Messi, erected by football fans in river Cherupuzha at Kozhikode in India's Kerala state on November 7, 2022, ahead of the Qatar 2022 FIFA World Cup football tournament.
Fans erected large cut-outs of their favourite footballers in a river in Kerala
Recently, fans erected a 30ft-tall cut-out of Lionel Messi in a river in Kozhikode. Not to be one-upped, fans of Christiano Ronaldo and Neymar soon erected cut-outs of their idols. These outlandish additions to the river invited a lot of media attention, and even Fifa tweeted about them.
For many Keralites, Qatar is also like a second home, as thousands work or have set up businesses in the middle-eastern country. Several of them have worked for firms who have built stadia for the World Cup.
"It's a dream come true to watch my favourite players in action," Mr Ali told the BBC as he was packing for his flight.
Along with sundry items needed for the trip, his bags also contains gifts for his favourite footballers - miniature dhows, or sailing boats.
The dhow, also known as uru in Kerala, has its origins in India's ancient maritime trade. Craftsmen in Beypore - an ancient port town in Kozhikode - have been engaged in dhow-making for generations and their handcrafted luxury dhows are popular among Qatari millionaires.
A thousand handcrafted miniature dhows made by the traditional shipbuilders of Beypore have been shipped to Qatar as merchandise for the World Cup. A life-sized dhow is also set to be on display.
Kerala has a huge number of football fans
Mr Ali is also taking a gift for the organisers - a dhow with flowers of participating countries drawn on its mast.
"We have drawn pictures of all the eight stadiums and flags of the participating countries on a football along with other icons," Meghna Unnikrishnan, the creator of the artwork, told the BBC.
"It took almost a month for the artisans to build the dhow, carved from teakwood, and I and three other artists finished the drawings in two days," she adds.
An ardent fan of Lionel Messi, "of course after Diego Maradona", Mr Ali is going to watch the World Cup matches live for the first time.
"Thank God [the World Cup in being held in] Doha this time and all the eight stadiums are in a 10km (6 miles) radius. Otherwise, I could not even dream of doing so," he says.
He says he would like to stay back and watch more matches, but "that's too expensive" for him and it'll take a "heavy toll" on his work back home.
Last week, Indian fans gathered in large numbers in Doha to cheer the arriving England team by beating drums and blowing horns.
Hashir Ali and artist Meghna Unnikrishnan with miniature dhow he’s carrying with him to Doha
Hashir Ali and Meghna Unnikrishnan with a miniature dhow they are carrying to Doha
TV networks in Kerala have also captured expatriate fans of teams from other countries, celebrating on the street, wearing the team's colours and waving their national flag.
"Football is in our blood and we make every match a celebration. There's no permanent loyalty," Mr Ali says.
In the neighbouring Malappuram district, the World Cup craze started six months ago, with seven football matches representing prominent local teams.
The players donned jerseys of their favourite countries - France, England, Argentina, Brazil, Holland, Germany and Portugal - in the seven-a-side matches.
Jerseys of iconic football players like Messi, Neymar, Ronaldo and flags of Brazil, Argentina, and other nations on display for sale on at the Esplanade market ahead of Qatar Football World Cup 2022 on November 15, 2022 in Kolkata, India.
Jerseys on sale in Kolkata city in the state of West Bengal
Abdul Nazar, a footballer from Vengara village in Malappuram is also readying to fly to Doha early next month.
Along with him, around 25 fans from the village are also travelling to Doha to cheer their favourite teams. They've arranged for drums to beat and flags to wave whenever their chosen team scores a goal, he says.
"We have fans for all major teams, although Argentina and Brazil are favourites," Mr Nazar told the BBC.

Fifa World Cup 2022: how to watch the Socceroos in Qatar
The tournament begins in the early hours of Monday. How can football fans follow the action? What times are kick-offs? Your questions answered
The Socceroos celebrate after defeating Peru in their Fifa World Cup playoff match in June 2022
Australians can follow the 2022 Fifa World Cup on the Guardian’s live blog and see every match live and free on SBS. Photograph: Joe Allison/Getty Images
The Fifa World Cup is about to kick off in Qatar. Here is how you can watch the Socceroos in action.
When is it happening?
In a drastic departure from its usual June and July slot on the calendar, the 22nd edition of the showcase tournament kicks off on Monday 21 November. Hosts Qatar lift the curtain against Ecuador at 3am AEDT while the Socceroos get their campaign up and running against defending champions France on Wednesday 23 November at 6am AEDT.
Socceroos Group D fixtures:
France v Australia – Wednesday 23 November, 6am AEDT
Tunisia v Australia – Saturday 26 November, 9pm AEDT
Australia v Denmark – Thursday 1 December, 2am AEDT
Australia players celebrate their penalty shootout victory over Peru in the World Cup playoff to seal their spot in Qatar.
World Cup 2022 team guides part 13: Australia
This year is the last to feature 32 teams before the competition expands to 48 in Canada, Mexico and the US in 2026. Those teams are divided into eight groups of four, with winners and runners-up from each to advance to the last 16. The knockout stage begins in the early hours of 4 December, the quarter-finals on 10 December and the semis on 14 December.
The final is scheduled to be played at 2am AEDT on Monday 19 December – which is also Qatar National Day. In total, 64 matches will be played over the course of the next month.
How can I follow from Australia?
The Guardian will be extensively liveblogging the tournament with rolling blogs beginning on Friday 18 November in the buildup to the big kick-off. Once the football gets under way, live blogs for individual matches will run throughout the group stage all the way until the final.
On the ground in Qatar will be a team of 15 Guardian journalists, including Socceroos correspondent Emma Kemp, all of whom will be reporting on both the football on the pitch and the myriad issues arising off it.
For those watching on their couches, every match can be seen live in a free-to-air exclusive broadcast on SBS. Eight of those live games will also be shown on SBS Viceland.
Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
Where is it happening?
In another break with tradition, every ball at this World Cup will be kicked within a 55km radius in Doha, the capital of Qatar, making it the most geographically compact tournament in World Cup history. Eight stadiums will host the matches, ranging from the smallest – Stadium 974, Al Janoub Stadium and Al Thumama Stadium, which hold 40,000 – to the 80,000-capacity Lusail Stadium, which will host the final.
Why is it controversial?
From Fifa’s original decision to award hosting rights to Qatar 12 years ago to the country’s record on human rights, via its treatment of migrant workers and discriminatory laws, this World Cup has attracted attention for the wrong reasons like no other before it. For many, the next four weeks will sit uncomfortably, and the tournament will provide an opportunity to use the spotlight that will be on Qatar to draw attention to these issues.
Is this the last major sporting event this year?
If you have been thinking there have been a quite a few World Cups going on of late, you would not be wrong. Between the T20 World Cup, the men’s and women’s Rugby League World Cups and the Women’s Rugby World Cup, it’s been a hectic end to the year. The tournament in Qatar, which unusually will be played in the same year as the Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Games, is not quite the last one of the 2022 though – there’s still the short course swimming championships in Melbourne and a couple of Test cricket series to come in December if you’re not already completely over sport.

