World Cup 2022: How football fever is gripping cricket-crazy India
Many fans in Kerala are traveling to Doha for the upcoming World Cup
This week, Hashir Ali and 11 of his friends will make a long trip - from Kozhikode city in the southern state of Kerala to Doha, the capital of Qatar.
Mr Ali, 55, a football-crazy civil engineer, and his friends are travelling to Doha for the World Cup, where they will stay for 10 days to watch the matches live.
Mr Ali bought tickets for the matches six months ago through a friend in Doha and has been waiting for the "big moment" ever since.
He is among several fans in India, who are gung-ho about football. Along with Kerala, Kolkata city in the eastern state of West Bengal and Kolhapur district in the western state of Maharashtra also have a large number of football fans.
With the world's second largest population, many feel India is under-represented in the world's most popular sport - the national team languishes in 106th spot in Fifa's rankings.
Though India qualified in 1950, they have never actually made it to the World Cup. They refused to participate, partly because it would have meant their normally barefoot team having to wear football boots.
But every time the World Cup is held, India's football fans do crazy things to express their love for the sport, and their favourite international team.
They save up for months to travel to watch the games; hold mock-matches sporting their favourite team's jerseys; predict who will win the championship and take out colourful processions to celebrate their team's victories.
Fans wave flags next to the giant cutouts of players from Brazil's Neymar (L), Portuguese Cristiano Ronaldo (C) and Argentine Lionel Messi, erected by football fans in river Cherupuzha at Kozhikode in India's Kerala state on November 7, 2022, ahead of the Qatar 2022 FIFA World Cup football tournament.
Fans erected large cut-outs of their favourite footballers in a river in Kerala
Recently, fans erected a 30ft-tall cut-out of Lionel Messi in a river in Kozhikode. Not to be one-upped, fans of Christiano Ronaldo and Neymar soon erected cut-outs of their idols. These outlandish additions to the river invited a lot of media attention, and even Fifa tweeted about them.
For many Keralites, Qatar is also like a second home, as thousands work or have set up businesses in the middle-eastern country. Several of them have worked for firms who have built stadia for the World Cup.
"It's a dream come true to watch my favourite players in action," Mr Ali told the BBC as he was packing for his flight.
Along with sundry items needed for the trip, his bags also contains gifts for his favourite footballers - miniature dhows, or sailing boats.
The dhow, also known as uru in Kerala, has its origins in India's ancient maritime trade. Craftsmen in Beypore - an ancient port town in Kozhikode - have been engaged in dhow-making for generations and their handcrafted luxury dhows are popular among Qatari millionaires.
A thousand handcrafted miniature dhows made by the traditional shipbuilders of Beypore have been shipped to Qatar as merchandise for the World Cup. A life-sized dhow is also set to be on display.
Kerala has a huge number of football fans
Mr Ali is also taking a gift for the organisers - a dhow with flowers of participating countries drawn on its mast.
"We have drawn pictures of all the eight stadiums and flags of the participating countries on a football along with other icons," Meghna Unnikrishnan, the creator of the artwork, told the BBC.
"It took almost a month for the artisans to build the dhow, carved from teakwood, and I and three other artists finished the drawings in two days," she adds.
An ardent fan of Lionel Messi, "of course after Diego Maradona", Mr Ali is going to watch the World Cup matches live for the first time.
"Thank God [the World Cup in being held in] Doha this time and all the eight stadiums are in a 10km (6 miles) radius. Otherwise, I could not even dream of doing so," he says.
He says he would like to stay back and watch more matches, but "that's too expensive" for him and it'll take a "heavy toll" on his work back home.
Last week, Indian fans gathered in large numbers in Doha to cheer the arriving England team by beating drums and blowing horns.
Hashir Ali and artist Meghna Unnikrishnan with miniature dhow he’s carrying with him to Doha
Hashir Ali and Meghna Unnikrishnan with a miniature dhow they are carrying to Doha
TV networks in Kerala have also captured expatriate fans of teams from other countries, celebrating on the street, wearing the team's colours and waving their national flag.
"Football is in our blood and we make every match a celebration. There's no permanent loyalty," Mr Ali says.
In the neighbouring Malappuram district, the World Cup craze started six months ago, with seven football matches representing prominent local teams.
The players donned jerseys of their favourite countries - France, England, Argentina, Brazil, Holland, Germany and Portugal - in the seven-a-side matches.
Jerseys of iconic football players like Messi, Neymar, Ronaldo and flags of Brazil, Argentina, and other nations on display for sale on at the Esplanade market ahead of Qatar Football World Cup 2022 on November 15, 2022 in Kolkata, India.
Jerseys on sale in Kolkata city in the state of West Bengal
Abdul Nazar, a footballer from Vengara village in Malappuram is also readying to fly to Doha early next month.
Along with him, around 25 fans from the village are also travelling to Doha to cheer their favourite teams. They've arranged for drums to beat and flags to wave whenever their chosen team scores a goal, he says.
"We have fans for all major teams, although Argentina and Brazil are favourites," Mr Nazar told the BBC.

	Chinese city of Guangzhou struggles to rein in record Covid outbreak
Local officials grapple with protests over lockdowns and confusion after Beijing eases pandemic rules
Rare protests in Guangzhou erupted this week over officials’ handling of the city’s worst Covid outbreak © Reuters
A Covid-19 outbreak in one of China’s biggest cities is on a knife edge following public protests and intense political debate among top officials over conflicting guidance from Beijing on how to handle the record surge in cases.
Regional Communist party leaders in Guangzhou, the capital of southern China’s Guangdong province with a population of 18mn, have been caught between relaxing some coronavirus measures while still trying to suppress the spread of the virus.
“Officials were still discussing the need to lock down the city last week, as the number of infected people was rising so rapidly that it was causing the government to panic,” said an adviser at the Guangdong Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention.
The dilemma facing provincial and city leaders is being closely watched as a critical test of President Xi Jinping’s hallmark zero-Covid policy, after Beijing signalled plans to relax some quarantine and contact-tracing requirements last week.
There is mounting uncertainty over how officials will respond to a surge in Omicron outbreaks across the world’s most populous country, including in Beijing and the south-western megacity of Chongqing. There are also questions about the financial sustainability of zero-Covid as local governments run out of funds to pay for daily mass PCR testing.
“Guangzhou’s current control approach is like an experiment, concentrating only on areas where the number of infections continues to rise and maintaining normal order in other areas,” the Guangdong CDC adviser said.
Guangzhou has reported more than 33,000 cases since October. Daily cases hit a record 8,761 on Wednesday, more than double the rate at the peak of a crippling two-month lockdown in Shanghai this year.
As of Monday, lockdowns are in place across areas responsible for more than 15 per cent of China’s gross domestic product, up from 12 per cent the previous week, according to Nomura data.
“It’s hard to execute [Beijing’s easing guidelines] while still sticking to the zero-Covid goal,” said a Guangzhou resident, referring to the city’s frequent changes in its daily Covid testing requirement.
While Guangzhou has averted a citywide lockdown, at least 9mn residents across five of the city’s 11 main districts are facing heavy-handed restrictions on movement and are required to take daily tests.
The Guangzhou government announced on Friday that it would immediately lift quarantine for close contacts of close contacts, as it attempted to fall in line with some of Beijing’s new rules.
However, conditions in Guangzhou have sparked a flurry of isolated protests, mostly focused in so-called urban villages — groups of tenements built on former farmland and housing mostly poorer workers and families.
A 35-year-old migrant worker surnamed Wang, who lives in the urban village of Shangchong in Haizhu district, told the Financial Times that a protest broke out in the district after anti-pandemic workers stopped a pregnant woman leaving a sealed-off compound.
Wang, who has been under lockdown for the past three weeks, said residents were fuming over being sealed inside their small neighbourhoods and complained about food shortages. “[The officials] charged us Rmb25 ($3.50) for a packet of instant noodles,” he said.
On Monday, officials sparked demonstrations after they failed to provide fresh groceries and medical services for residents and migrant workers who were fed up with weeks of lockdowns in the Haizhu subdistrict of Qiaonan, a small textile manufacturing hub, according to residents.
Coronavirus pandemic
Chinese city tiptoes away from zero-Covid
A film-maker surnamed Zhong, who is based in Guangzhou, told the FT that she had witnessed about 30 migrant workers being forced to sleep out in the street, without food or other essential supplies, since Monday. The group has been barred from returning to their homes in the urban villages of Kangle and Lujiang after being released from centralised quarantine.
A 21-year-old student surnamed Chen, who lives in one urban village in Panyu district, said residents were blocked from leaving or entering their neighbourhood on Saturday.
“A lot of people in our village were deemed to be ‘close contacts of close contacts’,” she said. “I thought the situation would get better after the new measures were announced the day before, but it turned out that they sealed off the village instead.”

